# GNOME HIG: Keyboard Shortcuts

> Extracted from [GNOME Human Interface Guidelines](https://developer.gnome.org/hig/reference/keyboard)

Standard Keyboard Shortcuts -   Standard Keyboard Shortcuts # When providing keyboard shortcuts, the following conventions should be adhered to, in order to ensure consistency between apps. Basic Shortcuts # Action Shortcut Description Close Ctrl+W Closes the current tab or window. Quit Ctrl+Q Closes the app, including all its windows. Help F1 Opens the help app on the page for the app. Side Pane F9 Toggles utility pane visibility. Menu F10 Opens the primary or secondary menu. Keyboard Shortcuts Ctrl+? Opens the keyboard shortcuts dialog. Preferences Ctrl+, Opens the preferences window Content & Files # Action Shortcut Description New Ctrl+N Creates a new content item, sometimes in a new window or tab. Open Ctrl+O Opens an existing content item, often by presenting the open file dialog. Save Ctrl+S Saves the current content item. In some cases this requires showing the save as dialog. Save As Shift+Ctrl+S Saves the current content item with a new filename. Raises the save as dialog. Print Ctrl+P Prints the current content item, and opens the print dialog. Print Preview Shift+Ctrl+P Shows a print preview of the current content item. Send Ctrl+M Sends or shares the current content item. Properties Alt+Return Shows properties for the current content item. Editing # Action Shortcut Description Undo Ctrl+Z Reverts the last taken action. Redo Shift+Ctrl+Z Performs the last taken action, if it has been previously reverted. Cut Ctrl+X Removes the selected content and adds it to the clipboard. Copy Ctrl+C Copies the selected content to the clipboard. Paste Ctrl+V Inserts the contents of the clipboard. Paste Special Shift+Ctrl+V Inserts a non-default version of the clipboard content. Duplicate Ctrl+U Creates a duplicate of the selected object. Select All Ctrl+A Selects all content in the focused control or view. Deselect All Shift+Ctrl+A Deselects all content in the focused control or view. Find Ctrl+F Shows and focuses a find/search UI. Find Next Ctrl+G Selects the next find/search result. Find Previous Shift+Ctrl+G Selects the previous find/search result. Replace Ctrl+H Shows and focuses a find and replace UI. View Options # Action Shortcut Description Zoom In Ctrl++ Enlarges the content in the view. Zoom Out Ctrl+- Reduces the content in the view. Normal Size Ctrl+0 Resets the zoom level to the default. Reload Ctrl+R Reloads the current view or content item. Formatting # Action Shortcut Description Bold Ctrl+B Toggles bold formatting for the current text selection. Italic Ctrl+I Toggles italicisation for the current text selection. Underline Ctrl+U Toggles the underlining of the current text selection. Bookmarking # Action Shortcut Description Add Bookmark Ctrl+D Adds a bookmark for the current location. Edit Bookmarks Ctrl+Alt+D Opens the bookmark list. Navigation # Action Shortcut Description Back Alt+← Navigates to the previous location. Forward Alt+→ Navigates to the next location in the navigation history. Up Alt+↑ Navigates to the parent location. Home Alt+Home Navigates to the starting location. Enter Location Ctrl+L Allows the user to specify an address or URI. Previous Page PageUp Navigates to the previous page. Next Page PageDown Navigates to the next page. First Page Ctrl+Home Navigates to the first page. Last Page Ctrl+End Navigates to the last page. Legacy System Reserved Shortcuts # The following shortcuts should be avoided by apps, since they are used by the system. Keys Function Alt+Tab, Shift+Alt+Tab Switches to the next/previous window. Alt+Tab+`, Shift+Alt+Tab+` Switches to the next/previous window of the focused app. Alt+F4 Close the focused window. Alt+F6, Shift+Alt+F6 Switches to the next/previous window of the focused app. Alt+F7 Moves the focused window. Alt+F8 Resizes the focused window. Alt+F5 Unmaximizes the focused window. Ctrl+Alt+Tab, Shift+Ctrl+Alt+Tab Switches between system areas Alt+Space Opens window menu. Ctrl+Alt+Delete System power off. Sections # In the keyboard shortcuts dialog, shortcuts should be categorized into sections. Although not present on the GNOME desktop, section titles and categorization should follow menu bar conventions with the exception that more general shortcuts should go in “General” instead of “File”. If a section gets too long, it can be further subdivided using unnamed sections. Previous Reference On this page Standard Keyboard Shortcuts Basic Shortcuts Content & Files Editing View Options Formatting Bookmarking Navigation Legacy System Reserved Shortcuts Sections